NIGERIA recorded additional 1.7 million undernourished adolescent girls and women of reproductive age between 2018 and 2021, according to a new report published on Tuesday, March 7 by the United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). Consequently, the country now has 7.3 million adolescent girls and women of reproductive age suffering from undernourishment – a sharp rise from 5.6 million in 2018. The report, ‘Undernourished and Overlooked: A Global Nutrition Crisis in Adolescent Girls and Women’, shows that Nigeria is among 12 countries representing the epicentre of a global nutrition crisis, with a large malnourished population. The nations are Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Yemen. The report blamed the challenge on the recent impacts of COVID-19, exacerbated by the war in Ukraine and ongoing drought, conflict and instability in some countries. According to the report, undernutrition risks women’s and newborns’ lives. The report, issued ahead of the International Women’s Day, warns that the ongoing crises, aggravated by unending gender inequality, are deepening a nutrition crisis among adolescent girls and women that had already shown slight improvement in the last two decades. It reveals that more than one billion adolescent girls and women suffer from undernutrition (including underweight and short height), deficiencies in essential micronutrients, and anaemia, with devastating consequences for their lives and well-being. At least 55 per cent of adolescent girls and women suffer from anaemia in Nigeria, while nearly half of the women of reproductive age in the country do not consume the recommended diet of at least five out of 10 food groups, namely grains and tubers, pulses, nuts and seeds, dairy, meat, poultry and fish, eggs, dark green leafy vegetables, other vitamin A rich fruits and vegetables, other vegetables and other fruits according to the 2022 National Food Consumption and Micronutrient Survey. Inadequate nutrition during girls’ and women’s lives can lead to weakened immunity and poor cognitive development. It also increases the risk of life-threatening complications – including during pregnancy and childbirth – risking mothers’ lives, with dangerous and irreversible consequences for their children’s survival, growth, learning, and future earning capacity. The report notes that South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa remain the epicentre of the nutrition crisis among adolescent girls and women, home to two in three adolescent girls and women suffering from being underweight globally and three in five adolescent girls and women with anaemia. The report further shows that global crises disproportionately disrupt women’s access to nutritious food. In 2021, there were 126 million more food-insecure women than men, compared to 49 million more in 2019, more than doubling the gender gap of food insecurity. Since last year, UNICEF has scaled up its efforts in the countries hardest hit by the global nutrition crisis, including Nigeria with an acceleration plan to prevent, detect, and treat wasting in women and children. The report calls on governments, development and humanitarian partners and donors, civil society organisations and development actors to transform food, health and social protection systems for adolescent girls and women by: