THE National Vice Chairman (North-West) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, has demanded the resignation of the party’s national chairman, Abdullahi Adamu. This is to pave the way for a Christian from the North-Central region to take over the position. Lukman made this demand in a statement on Friday, March 10. Adamu’s resignation, according to Lukman, will demonstrate that the party’s Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket was just an electoral strategy. He also said the move is in the interest of fairness, justice and equity. According to him, the party needs to have a new national chairman who is a Christian. He said, “Now that APC and Asiwaju won the election, it is essential to demonstrate that the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the President-Elect and Shettima is simply an electoral strategy. “There should be no difficulty in convincing Sen. Adamu to resign as national chairman to create an opportunity for a new national chairman of APC to emerge who is a Christian.” The Kaduna politician also asked for the removal of APC National Secretary Iyiola Omisore. He said this will appease party supporters in Osun following the disastrous outcome of results from both governorship and presidential elections in the state. “Apart from changing the National Chairman, there is the need also to recognise that the case of Sen. Iyiola Omisore, National Secretary of the party, has become a source of more robust dispute in Osun State. Unfortunately, rather than serving as a unifying factor for the party leadership in Osun State, Sen. Omisore is more of a divisive factor, which may have been responsible for why APC lost the 2022 governorship election to a political mediocre whose only qualification in politics may appear to be a comic dancing skill. “To save Osun State and bring it back to its old standard of national political reckoning, Sen. Omisore would need to resign as National Secretary of APC and have a new unifying National Secretary elected. Beyond Sen. Omisore, similarly, any member of the National Working Committee of the party who is not a unifying leader in their state should be changed,” he added.