SOME Nigerians have questioned the credibility of Presidential Election results uploaded on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Result Viewing portal (IReV). Many Nigerians are currently glued to the portal, trying to track the uploaded Presidential Election results. The ICIR learnt that the INEC has so far uploaded 161,624 results from 176, 846 polling units, eight days after the presidential poll. READ ALSO: 2023: INEC vows to punish staff involved in polls sabotage LP accuses INEC of manipulating Abia South senatorial results in favour of Abaribe APC says e-transmission of results at INEC’s discretion Election: CODE, media partners say INEC presented results where voting did not hold The figure represents 92 per cent of results from all the polling units. A Professor of Law at Baze University in Abuja, Sam Amadi reacted with a tweet after INEC uploaded results from Obio-Akpor Local Government Area (LGA) of Rivers State. “Obio-Akpor LGA results on INEC Portal. LP:70,186, APC:12,547. Meanwhile INEC announced something different. APC: 80,239, LP: 3,829”, he tweeted via his handle @SamAmadi. Another Twitter user @mindset shared similar tweet about the uploaded Obio-Akpor LGA result. “Obio-Akpor LGA results on INEC Portal. LP:70,186, APC:12,547. But INEC announced APC: 80,239, LP: 3829” @mindset tweeted. Also reacting, another Nigerian, Alex Oriprite, said, “What should I believe now after going through IRev? Did INEC intentionally set Tinubu up? Guys, if you go through the IRev, the result and margin of victory with which Peter Obi won is so resounding. How do they even intend to defend that in court?” Nigerians expected that the election results would be uploaded on election day as promised by INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. INEC, however, did not fulfil this promise and did not upload the result at the portal, resulting in a wide range of criticism from Nigerians. Contrary to the manual collation witnessed at the Presidential and National Assembly Election, INEC has promised to upload the results in the March 11 governorship and state assembly elections. Following the concerns raised by Nigerians, INEC has taken full responsibility for the problems associated with the delay in uploading most of results to the IReV. Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee in a statement on February 26 said the electoral umpire
regretted the distress the development caused the candidates, political parties and the electorate. Okoye assured Nigerians that results from the polling units, copies of which were issued to political parties, are safe on both the BVAS and the IReV portal and cannot be tampered with. “The Commission is aware of challenges with the INEC IReV. Unlike in off-season elections where the portal was used, it has been relatively slow and unsteady. The Commission regrets this setback, especially because of the importance of IReV in our results management process. “The problem is totally due to technical hitches related to scaling up the IReV from a platform for managing off-season, State elections, to one for managing nationwide general elections. It is indeed not unusual for glitches to occur and be corrected in such situations,” he said. All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate BolaTinubu was declared winner of the election with 8.8 million votes, while the main opposition candidates Atiku Abubakar (PDP) and Peter Obi (LP), got 6.9 million and 6.1 million votes, respectively.