THE Support Group Coordination of the All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council has warned the Labour Party (APC) against its planned nationwide protest scheduled for tomorrow, Monday, March 13. In a statement signed by its secretary, Tosin Adeyanju, the group called on the nation’s security agencies to caution the party against the plan. The group said the protest is aimed at destabilising the nation and its democracy. “The Labour Party had threatened to truncate INEC activities with protest over the inability to inspect election materials of the last Presidential election,” the group stated. According to the group, the protest aims to unleash violence on the nation. It urged the party to direct its grievances to the presidential election tribunal and shelve the protest or have its members to contend with should the protest hold. “Therefore, parents and guardians are advised to warn their children against participating in the planned protest slated for tomorrow across the country.” The ICIR reported the LP announcing its plans to protest nationwide against the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The protest follows the alleged refusal by the commission to comply with the court order that granted it access to the materials used for the conduct of the last presidential election. The LP (and the People’s Democratic Party) are challenging the APC’s victory in the presidential election conducted on February 25. INEC declared APC’s candidate, Bola Tinubu winner of the election with 8,794,726 votes. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and PDP’s candidate came second with 6,984,520 votes, while LP’s Peter Obi got 6,101,533 votes and took the third position. Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) followed Obi with 1,496,687 votes. There are 14 other candidates who got fewer votes at the poll. While the LP and PDP are challenging Tinubu’s victory, the president-elect is expected to be sworn in as president on May 29, when President Muhammadu Buhari’s two terms of four years apiece end.  