THE United Nations has condemned the killing of more than 30 civilians in Gamboru Ngala Local Government Area of Borno State. The UN spokesperson, Stephane Dujarric, disclosed this at a news conference held on Friday, March 10 at the body’s headquarters in New York. Dujarric expressed sadness over the incident, which happened in Mukdolo village, a border community, adding that several people were still missing. He said, “On Wednesday, more than 30 civilians were reportedly ambushed and killed in the village of Mukdolo. Several people were reportedly injured, and others are still missing. “The victims were fishermen and farmers. They included both internally displaced people and host community members from the neighbouring Dikwa Local Government Area.” The spokesperson described the attack as another horrific reminder of the real threats of violence and insecurity that displaced people and others, impacted by more than 13 years of conflict in the region, as the people continued to face those challenges daily. Dujarric revealed that the UN and its partners, together with the Nigeria government, had launched a $583 million humanitarian appeal to help 2.7 million people this year. He said another appeal calling for more than $400 million had also been launched to support the government’s efforts to bolster food security for internally displaced people, host communities, refugees, and flood-impacted people, among others. “Over the past six years, the number of people who need humanitarian assistance in Niger has more than doubled – from 1.9 million people in 2017 to 4.3 million this year,” he said. The UN spokesperson further stressed that conflict and insecurity had increased chronic vulnerability, compounded by extreme weather conditions and poverty. “Two million people are currently food insecure. This figure is likely to increase to 2.9 million during the lean season between June and August. “2022 humanitarian response plan for $553 million was 70 per cent funded,’’ he said.