FIRE has gutted a spare parts market in the Ajegunle Area of Lagos State. The cause of the inferno is yet to be identified at the time of filling this report. But eyewitnesses said the incident happened around midnight, Wednesday, February 8. However, images and videos seen by The ICIR online show one of the buildings housing shops in the market was completely burnt down. READ ALSO:
Battery explosion caused fire outbreak at Ministry of Finance building – Official How two major fire outbreaks consumed Federal Mortgage Bank offices in six years Nigeria loses 630MW of power to Egbin fire outbreak Police confirm fire outbreak at Computer Village Director, of Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service, Margaret Adeseye, in a statement, said the fire destroyed rows of shops that traded in auto spare parts. Adeseye said that the Ajegunle Fire Station of the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service was the first to respond, followed by the Sari-Iganmu and Ilupeju fire crews of the agency. She noted that the fire fighters were able to contain the fire and prevent it from spreading to nearby buildings, including a major market and a petroleum filling station with a fully loaded 33,000 litres PMS tanker. However, Adeseye disclosed that a male adult was found dead with a gunshot injury in the rubble. She added that the Tolu Police Division in the area have recovered the corpse. Lagos State Police spokesperson,  Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the incident to The ICIR on phone, said investigation has commenced into the incident at the State Criminal Investigative Department (SCID). “Yes, it happened. An investigation has begun at the SCID.” The recent fire incident in the spare parts market in the Ajegunle Area of Lagos State is not an isolated case. Lagos, being a densely populated city, has experienced several fire outbreaks in the past that have resulted in loss of lives and properties. In 2019, a fire outbreak occurred at the popular Balogun market on Lagos Island, which is known for its textile and fashion items. The inferno destroyed many shops and goods worth millions of naira. Similarly, in 2020, a fire outbreak was recorded at the popular Abule-Egba pipeline area of Lagos, which led to the loss of lives and properties. The cause of these fire incidents has often been attributed to factors such as poor safety measures, inadequate fire-fighting equipment, and poor infrastructure.