THE Delta State chapter of the Labour Party (LP) has debunked rumours that it was negotiating with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the March 11 governorship election in the state. Chairman of the LP in Delta, Tony Ezeagwu, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in an interview on Monday, March 6, that there was no truth in the rumours. He said the LP was determined to win the governorship election in Delta State. READ ALSO:
No plan for alliance with Labour Party in Lagos — PDP Guber poll: Supreme Court affirms Dauda Lawal as Zamfara PDP candidate Oyo LP leaders abandon party’s candidate, back PDP’s Seyi Makinde Presidential Poll: Seven PDP states withdraw suit challenging declaration of Tinubu as winner According to Ezeagwu, the LP held a meeting to discuss the rumours and resolved to advise the public, especially the party’s supporters, to disregard the claims. Ezeagwu stated that the LP had no business with Okowa, the PDP, or any other party in the state. He said the rumours were being peddled by people who were envious of the “popularity and general acceptance” of the LP in the state. According to him, those spreading the rumours “were terrified and afraid because they were being haunted by what the LP did to them during the presidential election”. “Some mischievous politicians in the state are hell-bent on bringing down the LP ahead of the governorship election,” he added. Ezeagwu noted that the LP in Delta had no dealing or agreement with either the PDP or the All Progressives Congress (APC) as far as the March 11 governorship election was concerned. He stressed that the LP was going into the election with a mandate to win with its candidate, Ken Pela. The development is coming on the heels of rumours that LP governorship candidate, Ken Pela, was a stooge to the state governor, Okowa. It was also alleged that the LP state chairman, Ezeagwu, had been settled with the sum of N1 million to turn the party’s supporters to the PDP. Urging members of the public to disregard the rumours, Ezeugwu said the LP remained resolute in its determination to win the governorship election and would never divert its support to any other party.