THE Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has debunked speculations of a possible alliance with the Labour Party (LP) for the 2023 gubernatorial election. LP candidate Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour had reportedly told supporters in the Lekki area of Lagos that discussing with the PDP became necessary to forge a common front against the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the governorship contest next week. READ ALSO:
PDP will take Lagos, give Lagosians freedom — Jandor Fayose resigns from PDP, urges Lagosians to vote APC in guber poll Obi condemns attacks on supporters in Lagos Lagos presidential poll result: Sanwo-Olu calls for calm Reacting to the reports, the Lagos PDP spokesperson, Hakeem Amode, said there was no official conversation between the parties. He stressed that Lagos PDP governorship candidate, Azeez Adediran, often addressed as Jandor, “would not be stepping down for anyone”. In a statement on Monday, Amode described the report saying Jandor is considering stepping down for Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, Labour Party (LP) candidate, as false. “PDP is a proper democratic party, and it is only the State executive of the party as recognised by the national body that can be described as the custodian of the PDP. “So, whoever Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour is talking to is only representing themselves and not Lagos PDP, as there is no official conversation between the parties. “Jandor is not planning to step down for any candidate,” Amode, also the Chairman of Media and Publicity, JandorFunke 2023 Campaign Council, said. The spokesman said Jandor had worked hard and had made his brand a household name. “We are using this opportunity to urge our teeming supporters and good people of Lagos that the decision of the people to ensure that Lagos breaks free will be respected and defended in the coming gubernatorial election of March 11. “The efforts to liberate Lagos from the present oligarchy government of APC cannot be undermined by people who do not see such a great battle that must be won and cannot be subjected to social media cruise,” he added.