THE President-elect, Bola Tinubu, says his leadership will treat all Nigerians fairly and equitably. According to him, his administration is ready to adopt a different approach that will satisfy the yearnings of Nigerians for a functional country. Tinubu, in his acceptance speech, vowed to ensure good governance, economic growth and the safety of all citizens. “Now, to you, the young people of this country, I hear you loud and clear. I understand your pains and yearnings for good governance, a functional economy and a safe nation that protects you and your future. “Remodelling our precious national home requires the cooperative efforts of all of us, especially the youth. Working together, we shall move this nation as never before,” he said. He called for calm, urging citizens and the opposition to seek redress in court rather than resort to violent street protests. “I know some candidates will be hard put to accept the election results. It is your right to seek legal recourse. What is neither right nor defensible is for anybody to resort to violence. Any challenge to the electoral outcome should be made in a court of law, not in the streets,” he said. Tinubu commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting a “free and fair election,” stating that the few lapses noted were immaterial to the election outcome. Tinubu won the election with 8,794,726 votes, defeating the other 17 candidates to score the highest number of votes. He also had over 25 per cent of the votes cast in 30 states, more than the 24 states constitutionally required. The INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, declared him the winner in the early hours of Wednesday, March 1. He also announced that Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), came second with 6,984,520 votes. Labour Party candidate Peter Obi came third with 6,101,533 votes, while Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) came fourth with 1,496,687 votes. A Certificate of Return will be presented to the President and his vice by 3:00 pn on Wednesday at the National Collation Centre.