THE candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has hired the services of 19 Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SANs) to challenge the result of the February 25 Presidential Election. In a statement issued by the Atiku Media Office in Abuja on Wednesday, March 7, the former vice president mandated the legal team to establish the claim of manipulation in the February 25 presidential election. He stressed the need to “reclaim the mandate of the Nigerian people”. Atiku further insisted that the result declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) does not reflect the will of Nigerians. “Apart from reclaiming the mandate from those who undertook the electoral heist that was not a reflection of the will of Nigerians, the legal team should also use the opportunity of the trial to strengthen constitutional democracy in the country,” Atiku said. Urging the legal team to challenge the controversies regarding the election’s result, Atiku noted that reclaiming “the mandate” would strengthen democracy in Nigeria. “It was imperative that they work assiduously in reclaiming the mandate not necessarily because of him and the PDP, but to strengthen democracy and the electoral process and for generations unborn,” the statement said. The legal team is led by Joe K. Gadzama, SAN. Members of the team include Chief Chris Uche (SAN), Paul Usoro (SAN), Tayo Jegede (SAN), Ken Mozia (SAN), Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), Mahmood Magaji (SAN), Joe Abraham (SAN), Chukwuma Umeh (SAN), Garba Tetengi (SAN) and Emeka Etiaba (SAN). Others are Goddy Uche (SAN), Maxwell Gidado (SAN); the National Legal Adviser of the PDP, A. K. Ajibade (SAN), OM Atoyebi, (SAN),  Nella Rabana (SAN), Paul Ogbole (SAN), Nuremi Jimoh (SAN), and Abdul Ibrahim (SAN). The candidate of the Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi is also challenging the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Bola Tinubu. The ICIR earlier reported that the  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Tinubu winner of the presidential election.