THE candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in the February 25 Presidential Election, Peter Obi, has said one of the problems facing the country is accepting things that are not acceptable. Obi said this when he appeared on Arise TV’s Morning Show on Monday, March 13. “What they are actually preaching is the problem of Nigeria. The problem of Nigeria is accepting wrongdoing, and what is unacceptable,” Obi said. According to the former governor of Anambra State, God wanted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to hold an election that was trustworthy, free and fair. “So, what they are saying is not God’s wish. It is not God’s plan for Nigeria,” he added. According to him, it is not God’s plan that Nigeria has not resolved her electricity challenges over the years. In addition, Obi stated that he is contesting the methods used to determine Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the election rather than the result itself. “I am only challenging the process through which INEC declared him President-Elect. I have no issues with his declaration as the President-elElect.” On allegations that the Labour Party rigged the presidential election in the South-East due to the large number of votes he got, Obi said, “I’m surprised I didn’t get 100 per cent of votes in Anambra. Come to Anambra with me. I don’t need to go around with security. They know I keep my promises.” Obi urged INEC to accept the duty of helping Nigeria create a good international image. INEC declared Bola Ahmed Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress winner of the presidential poll, ahead of 17 other candidates that contested the election. The Chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, announced the result of the election on March 1. According to the released result by INEC, Tinubu scored a total of 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled a total of 6,984,520 votes, and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), who came third with 6,101,533 votes. The PDP and LP candidates had since rejected the outcome of the election and vowed to challenge it in court.