THE Kano State Police Command has arraigned the Majority Leader of the House of Representatives Al-Hassan Ado Doguwa in connection with the killings that occurred in his constituency during last Saturday’s elections. Doguwa is the lawmaker representing Doguwa/Tundun Wada Federal Constituency. The police arrested Doguwa at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA) on Tuesday, February 28 after he failed to honour an invitation. According to the Police Public Relations Officer in Kano, Abdullahi Kiyawa, the Commissioner of Police in charge of the 2023 General Election, Kano State Command, Muhammad Yakubu, directed the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) to carry out a thorough investigation following complaints received on the gruesome murder of three persons and the alleged viral video of some victims with suspected gunshots in the social media. On February 27th, the department extended a formal invitation to Doguwa for his alleged complicity in the incident, but he refused to honour the invitation, leaving the command with no other option but to activate a motion that would lead to his arrest. Detectives from the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) Bompai Kano arrested him at the airport. The police are continuing their investigation, and other suspects at large will be arrested, the Command’s spokesman said. “The suspects arrested will soon be charged to court for prosecution, and the effort to get others at large is being intensified. “The Commissioner of Police appreciated the good people of Kano State for their peaceful conduct in maintaining law and order during the concluded Presidential and National Assembly Elections and their aftermath. “The Command is reiterating its commitment to safeguarding the lives and properties of the people of Kano State. The CP is willing to tame any subversive element(s) or actor(s) out to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state. The police are intensifying their efforts to get other suspects at large and bring them to justice,” he added. The Kano State Government has also expressed concern over the incident, and the Governor has promised to do everything possible to ensure that justice is served. The government has called on the people of Kano State to remain calm and peaceful while the investigation is ongoing.