AN ABUJA-BASED printer, Sola Ogunlola, has accused the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) of failing to deliver his consignment to Benin Republic one year after he allegedly paid the Service N181,000 for a waybill. Ogunlola told The ICIR he got an order from one Mrs Neo Ale from Benin Republic in early 2022 to print her some branded nylons. He got the fund for the work through the Western Union. The money he received covered his work and the parcel’s postage cost to the Benin Republic. “I finished the printing and took it to EMS Post Office Garki Area 10 Abuja for a waybill to Cotonou, Benin, on 13th March 2022. I paid N181,500 as charges for delivery, and to date, the receiver didn’t get the nylons. “The receiver has called me, my business and my country with all kinds of unprintable names, labelling me a fraudster. “I don’t want this case to be swept under the carpet. If they can’t deliver, let them refund my money and the nylons so that the consignment can go through another route,” Ogunlola fumed. Efforts by the printer to know the parcel’s whereabouts have been futile. Ogunlola has met with NIPOST officials at its Area 10 office and the Garki headquarters in Abuja. According to him, the head of the Area 10 office he met, Dickson Ugbomoiko, told him he was about to retire and could not do much to help. He said Ugbomoiko told him to contact any other person he knew at NIPOST that could assist in tracking the parcel’s whereabouts. “He said even if I go to court, the court will only award me a percentage of the cost of the parcel that I sent, and the matter will drag for a very long time in the court. One of the two receipts on which Sola Ogunlola, a printer in Abuja, allegedly paid N181,000 to NIPOST to deliver a branded nylon to his client in Benin Republic, which has not been delivered a year after. Photo credit: Sola OgunlolaThe ICIR contacted Ugbomoiko, who confirmed he had tried his best but could not locate the consignment. He, however, assured The ICIR that the parcel was not stolen or missing but could be at the NIPOST warehouse in Lagos State or stuck on arrival in Benin Republic. The ICIR also contacted NIPOST’s spokesperson, Frank Alao, who promised to investigate the matter. Alao did not respond to subsequent enquiries on the matter from this organisation.