By Uchenna Igwe When Okon Emannuel, 56, fell ill in June 2021, he visited a local chemist (drug store) four blocks from his residence in Midim, Abak Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. “I think it was malaria. But after taking the tablets the chemist mixed for me, I still felt fever(ish) again,” he said. As his situation got worse, he sought care at “Polyclinic” – the Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) Operational Base – situated some three kilometres away, despite the existence of the Midim PHC in his community. Emmanuel said his preference for Polyclinic is shared by many other residents of the area. “The one you talk about (Midim PHC); how many people go there that time?” he asked. “Maybe pregnant women for antenatal,” a woman, who had been listening to the conversation quickly added. “Many people here go to Polyclinic, because it is better,” Emmanuel said. The low patronage at PHC Midim was not unconnected with its dilapidated state at the time. According to a 2021 assessment report by UDEME, a social accountability initiative of the Centre for Journalism Innovation and Development, the PHC had broken ceilings, crumbling roofs and doors and windows affected by termite infestation. However, this is not the situation at PHC Midim today, courtesy of the Nigerian government’s intervention through the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund (BHCPF). A visit to the PHC in August showed that it had been renovated and repainted. “The fund has helped to transform this place. We have replaced the doors and the wood in the ceiling that were destroyed by termites and fumigated the place from the ceiling up and down,” Itohowo Duncan, the officer in charge of the PHC, stated. “We have more patients coming in here now than before.” A generator was also procured to provide power supply at the PHC, putting an end to the long years of borrowing the village head’s generator. Sylvester Ibanga, the village head, was full of praise for the federal government’s intervention. “It has helped to improve the health centre a lot. They were able to repair a lot of things in the place. They even procured a generator to fix the electricity and water issues there. We are happy and we thank the government for this project,” he said. The Nigerian government introduced BHCPF under the National Health Act (NHAct) 2014 to provide free minimum basic healthcare to the most vulnerable populations through PHCs across Nigeria and reduce personal out-of-pocket payments and associated financial risks, through health insurance. The initiative is funded with a minimum of one per cent of the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF), grants from international partners and other donors. The fund is disbursed via three gateways: 50 per cent for the provision of Basic Minimum Package of Health Services (BMPHS) to citizens via the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), five per cent for treatment of medical emergencies and 45 per cent to improve PHCs’ service delivery through the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). Of the 45 per cent, 20 per cent is for the provision of essential drugs, vaccines and consumables for eligible PHCs, 15 per cent is for the maintenance of PHC facilities and equipment and 10 per cent is for the development of PHC staff. For the NHIS Gateway, citizens and healthcare providers are expected to be enrolled as beneficiaries of the BHCPF, to enable them to access preventive, protective, promotive, curative, and rehabilitative health services at designated PHCs. However, these health services shall be funded through the State Health Insurance Agencies and State Health Insurance Schemes (SHIA, SHIS), at an agreed premium.