THE Fed Government has disclosed that 32 states, 178 local government areas (LGAs) and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are at risk of heavy flooding in 2023. The Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu disclosed this at the presentation of the General Highlights of the 2023 Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) organised by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency in Abuja on Friday, February 17. Adamu stated that the forecast for 2023 AFO shows that many states are at high risk of flooding. According to him, 24 LGAs in 35 states of the federation including the FCT fall within the moderately probable flood risk areas. The remaining 402 Local Government Areas fall within the probable flood risk areas. The minister stated that the highly probable flood-risk states include: Adamawa, Abia, Akwa-Ibom, Anambra, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ebonyi, Ekiti, and Edo. Other states at risk are: Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Nasarawa, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Rivers, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara and the Federal Capital Territory. The minister added that the level of flood impact between April and November 2023 is expected to be high in terms of impact on the population, livelihood, infrastructure and environment. According to him, “66 LGAs across the country fall within the highly probable risk areas in the months of April, May and June, while part of 148 LGAs fall in the months of July, August and September, and part of 100 LGAs in the months of October and November 2023.” He stressed that a moderate impact level of floods was projected in 41 LGAs within the months of April, May, and June. The minister further noted that 199 LGAs would experience a moderate within the months of July, August and September as well 73 LGAs between the months of October and November 2023. He revealed that the report showed coastal flooding would occur in Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Ogun, River, Ondo, Edo and Lagos State due to the rise in sea level. Also, according to the minister, flash and urban floods would take place in major cities like Lagos, Kaduna, Suleja, Gombe, Yola, Makurdi, Lafia, Asaba, Port Harcourt, Yenagoa, Ibadan, Abeokuta. Benin City, Bernin Kebbi, Sokoto, Lokoja, Maiduguri, Kano, Oshogbo, Ado-Ekiti, Abakaliki, Awka, Nsukka, Calabar and Owerri. The minister, however, urged the state government and stakeholders across the country to utilize the Annual Flood Outlook report to mitigate and avert loss of lives and property through adequate, coordinated and effective flood early warning and sensitisation, awareness campaigns, improved flood mitigation strategies and preparedness for risk reduction. The ICIR earlier reported victims’ experiences and ordeals during flooding in 2022