THE Coalition for Whistleblowers Protection and Press Freedom (CWPPF) has condemned the arrest of WikkiTimes publisher Haruna Muhammed by the Bauchi State Police Command and the harassment of the Executive Director of the International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR) Dayo Aiyetan. The Coalition, in a statement released on Sunday, February 26, called for the immediate release of the WikkiTimes publisher. Haruna was arrested while covering the 2023 general elections in Duguri, Bauchi State and is currently being held at the state police headquarters. According to the Editor of WikkiTimes Yakubu Mohammed, Haruna was detained shortly after he and other reporters interviewed Governor Bala Mohammed in the governor’s hometown of Duguri. Parts of the statement read:
“In the course of covering the elections, Haruna encountered women who were protesting about submitting CVs but were not employed. While interviewing these women who began to agitate that they would not vote, some hoodlums, believed to be supporters of the governor attempted to lynch Haruna, and he was subsequently taken into police custody. “Initially, the police claimed that Haruna was taken into custody for his own safety, but they now insist that he can only be released by the order of the governor.” Haruna has been accused of sending a video of the women protesting to the opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Section 22 of the Nigerian Constitution gives the press, radio, television and other agencies of the mass media the right to “uphold the responsibility and accountability of the government to the people” at all times, including during elections. “ Similarly, the Executive Director of the International Centre for Investigative Reporting, Dayo Aiyetan, was assaulted while recording electoral irregularities at Agwai Fulani Town Hall in the Gwagwalada area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to the Coalition there are clear indications that those responsible for safeguarding the rights of the media are now major perpetrators of attacks on journalists. “It is crucial to note that press freedom is sacrosanct to this democracy, and everyone, including state/non-state actors, should allow its elements to work without any hindrance. Therefore, the CWPPF condemns the arrest of Mr Haruna Muhammed and harassment of Mr. Aiyetan. “We call for Haruna immediate release to enable him to carry out his journalistic duty,” the statement added. The Coalition promised to take every legal step to hold to account anyone whose action or inaction leads to the violation of the rights of any journalist during and beyond the elections. The Coalition also urged Nigerian security agencies to take all possible preventive and protection measures for the physical safety of journalists and media workers; and provide them with adequate support where necessary.