AHEAD of the general elections, some stakeholders have expressed concern over the rising level of political thuggery and violence in Kano State. The Kano Peace Committee (KPC), an affiliate of the National Peace Committee, observed that party supporters had violated the peace accord signed by eight governorship candidates in the state. The committee said the violent clashes have been particularly rife in nine communities, namely – Dambatta/Makoda, Rimin Kebe, Mandawari, Rigiyar Lemo, Larabar Abasawa, Dawakin Kudu and Tudun Wada. READ ALSO:
Kano asks Supreme Court to stop FG’s naira redesign policy Sokoto, Kano, others highly prone to manipulation in 2023 elections — Report Kano’s $12.39bn economy gets a boost as Buhari commissions Dala inland dry port Naira redesign: Ganduje asks Buhari to postpone Kano visit over ‘untold hardship’ According to the committee, one of the clashes resulted in the death of “a young man” in the Nasarrawa area of Kano. The group urged leaders of the political parties to respect the rules of the peace accord for the interest and well-being of the Kano citizens. “This ugly development is glaringly threatening the peace and security of the state. The most current reported violence unleashed on the residents of Rimin Kebe quarters of Nassarawa LGA, which claimed the life of an innocent young boy by the alleged supporters of a candidate seeking election for the House of Representatives, was not only dangerous to the lives of Kano citizens but also uncalled for this,” a statement released by the committee read. The committee also called on security agencies to arrest and prosecute perpetrators and the high-profile sponsors of the violence across all party lines. Violent clashes have dominated the political landscape as Nigerians get set for the February 25 presidential poll and National Assembly elections. Across the country, there has been a spike in violent attacks and a frequent breakdown of law and order. Attacks on the electoral body are also rife. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has been attacked over 50 times in the last four years. Also, in three years, about 9,836 smart card readers have been lost in over 42 attacks.