PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has condemned terrorists’ attack on dozens of vigilantes in Yargoje Forest, Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State. On Friday, the vigilantes, mainly from the Bakori LGA of the state, had gone to recover cows rustled by terrorists when they were ambushed and gunned down. Reacting to the attack today, Buhari, who hails from the state, extolled the deceased and commiserated with their families. READ ALSO: Naira Redesign: Buhari asks for seven days to tackle cash shortage, blames banks for inefficiency Presidential election: Buhari not favouring anybody – Lai Mohammed Tinubu&#8217;s outburst on exchange rate, an attack on PDP not Buhari &#8211; APC El-Rufai berates Buhari, fifth columnists over naira redesign, fuel crisis The President said in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Garba Shehu that “the sacrifices of the brave men who are working to prevent and punish crime in their communities will not be forgotten.” The presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, also condemned the attack today in a message on his social media page. Abubakar said the attack was “yet another ugly episode of the senseless killings of Nigerians on account of terror attacks.” He called for a multi-sectoral initiative to evaluate how to decimate the terrorists. “We must be ready to do all that it takes to put a stop to these attacks,” he said. He condoled the deceased relations, including the people and government of Katsina State. An activist and former senator who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, Shehu Sani, had taunted the president yesterday over the attack. Buhari was in Lafia, Nasarawa State, to campaign for the presidential candidate of his party, the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu. Sani teased, “As the President visits Nasarawa state, I call on the governor of the state to take the president to the scene where 40 harmless herders were killed and meet with the families of the deceased.” The ICIR reports that it remains unclear how the Buhari government will tame terrorists and other activities of criminals that continue to threaten the nation’s general elections scheduled for February 25 and March 11, 2023. 