A FORMER Minister of Aviation and Director of Special Projects and New Media of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Femi Fani-Kayode has described his grilling by the Directorate of State Services (DSS) as ‘tough’. He made the disclosure Tuesday, February 13, on his Twitter account. READ ALSO: Coup: Fani Kayode invited by DSS, boasts ‘I’m used to incarceration’ Banks working with syndicates to sell new naira notes &#8211; DSS DSS counters reported invasion of Emefiele&#8217;s office, as he resumes duty Okupe released after DSS arrest On Monday, February 14, Fani-Kayode honoured the DSS invitation over his claim that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, reportedly had a meeting with top military officers in Abuja to scuttle the 2023 presidential poll through a military coup. In over a dozen tweets, he attacked Abubakar and boasted of his experience in arrests and detention by Nigerian security agencies. He expressed fears the DSS might detain him till after the presidential election coming up on February 25 but prayed for the victory of his principal and candidate of the APC Bola Tinubu. The DSS, however, released him on bail hours after grilling him and asked him to return on Wednesday, February 15, for further questioning. Narrating his ordeal, Fani-Kayode said: “I got home safely after a six-hour interrogation and ordeal. It was quite an experience, and even though it was tough, the panel that interrogated me were polite and professional. I was granted bail, and I shall return there on Wednesday.” He appreciated Tinubu, his running mate, Kashim Shettima, the APC chairman Adamu Abdullahi, the Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, and his lawyer, Adeola Adedipe, and several others for standing by him. The ICIR reports that Fani-Kayode has had a run of arrests, detention and court trials by the Nigerian government. The most recent was his arrest by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in November 2021 over alleged hospital document forgery. He allegedly forged the document to stall his money laundering trial.