United States (US) President Joe Biden made an unannounced wartime visit to Ukraine on Monday, February 20, in a show of support ahead of the one-year anniversary of Russia’s invasion. Biden arrived early Monday morning after a lengthy, covert journey from Washington to meet with President Volodymyr Zelensky at the Mariinsky Palace, and the two stepped out into the streets of Kyiv even as an air-raid siren sounded, a dramatic moment that underscored the investment the US has made in Ukraine’s independence. READ ALSO:
Ukraine celebrates 31st independence anniversary amid Russia’s invasion Presidency admits hardship in Nigeria, blames COVID-19, Russia-Ukraine war Russia invasion of Ukraine threatens food security in Nigeria Ukraine, other conflicts push number of displaced persons above 100 million for first time The US President promised $500 million of additional military aid to Kyiv and further sanctions against Russia, saying President Vladimir Putin’s war plans are “plain wrong”. “One year later, Kyiv stands,” Biden declared at Mr. Zelensky’s side in Mariinsky Palace, the gilded ceremonial home of the Ukrainian President. “And Ukraine stands. Democracy stands.” The United States and other Western nations have been sending arms, tanks and ammunition to Ukraine in the hopes of changing the trajectory of the war. By visiting in person, Biden is offering a singular image of American support for Zelensky, who has spent the past year attempting to rally the world behind his nation and appealing for greater levels of assistance. “Thank you so much for coming, Mr. President, at a huge moment for Ukraine,” Mr. Zelensky said in response to the visit. Biden who had already visited Ukraine six times as former President Barack Obama’s deputy departed Kyiv in the early afternoon. The Russian invasion began at the dawn of 24 February, 2022, with infantry divisions and armoured and air support in Eastern Ukraine, and dozens of missile attacks across both Eastern Ukraine and Western Ukraine.