VIOLENT protests have erupted in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, amid the growing frustration and anger among Nigerians over the scarcity of cash and petrol. The ICIR gathered areas such as Aladesanmi, Fajol and Somorin in Obantoko were overtaken by the protesters, who set bonfires and sang anti-Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) songs. The Sapon branch of First Bank was also vandalized, and the protesters attempted to set it on fire. READ ALSO: Naira, fuel scarcity: Use your anger to vote out APC, Atiku tells Nigerians El-Rufai berates Buhari, fifth columnists over naira redesign, fuel crisis Fuel scarcity has nothing to do with election – Kyari Tinubu did not blame Buhari in comments on naira redesign, fuel scarcity — APC Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force tried to disperse the protesters, but they regrouped as soon as the policemen withdrew from the scene. The protesters returned with greater intensity and set bonfires with disused tires. The situation was said to have disrupted vehicular movement, causing motorists and pedestrians to run off the road for safety. Ogun Police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, told newsmen the police are monitoring the situation to prevent the further destruction of property and loss of lives. While saying calm had been restored in Asero, Oyeyemi warned the protesters against causing more hardship for Nigerians, especially by vandalising other people’s properties. He expressed concerns that some of those leading the uprising do not have money to withdraw from any banks. “We have talked to them so that they won’t turn the protest into the destruction of properties. Anybody who tries to destroy any property will be decisively dealt with. We have warned them,” he said. “They are protesting that they can’t withdraw money and there is fuel scarcity. The funny thing is that those who don’t have N5 in their accounts are demonstrating that they can’t withdraw. This is uncalled for. We all have to be calm.” A similar protest erupted in Akure, the Ondo state capital. Protesters barricaded major roads and frustrated vehicular and human movement in the early hours of Tuesday, February 7. Palpable tension has continued to rise in various parts of the country over the shortage of cash and fuel, which is affecting daily life and business operations. The cash shortage followed the naira redesign policy introduced by the CBN with the approval of the Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.