THE National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has destroyed fake drugs and expired products worth over N326 million in Nasarawa State. The fake products which were seized from pharmaceutical stores and other business enterprises across the states in the North-Central were destroyed on Thursday, February 16 in Lafia, the state capital. Speaking during the destruction exercise, the Director General of NAFDAC Prof Christianah Adeyeye said that the destroyed products included medicines, food, cosmetics and chemicals, which were either seized from manufacturers or voluntarily handed over by compliant companies and other stakeholders. Adeyeye who was represented at the exercise by the NAFDAC Director, Investigation and Enforcement Francis Ononiwu, described the act of some Nigerians who sell such substances to other citizens as the gravest onslaught on human life. According to the Adeyeye, the drugs were confiscated and destroyed to safeguard the health of the entire citizens of the nation. The NAFDAC DG said, “It is important to note that the importation, distribution and sales of fake and unsafe products represents a grave onslaught on human life. “Today, we are witnessing the destruction of various categories of regulated products with estimated street value of N326,833,592.80. These products include medicines, foods, cosmetics, either confiscated or voluntarily handed over by complaint companies, non-governmental organisations or trade unions. “The destruction of these products will prevent their re-introduction into the distribution chain.” She further assured the public that NAFDAC is doing everything within its powers to ensure that only safe medicines and wholesome products are sold to the citizens. Adeyeye said that the agency, by its establishment Act Cap LFN, 2004, was saddled with the responsibility to regulate and control the importation, exportation, manufacture, advertisement, distribution, sale and use of food, drugs and medical products. She, therefore, solicited the support and cooperation of the general public towards reducing fake drugs and products in the country .