MULTIPLE earthquakes and aftershocks that struck eastern Turkiye and neighboring Syria on Monday, February 6, have killed more than 5,000, as search and rescue operations continue. An initial 7.8 magnitude quake struck close to Gaziantep, followed by another 7.5 magnitude earthquake several hours later, bringing down hundreds of buildings. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan declared seven days of national mourning. The quakes, which were centered in Turkey’s southeastern province of Kahramanmaras, sent residents of Damascus and Beirut rushing into the street and was felt in four countries including Cyprus, Israel, Lebanon and Syria. Many have reported their relatives remained trapped under the rubbles and authorities fear the death toll will keep climbing as the rescuers look for survivors among tangles of metal and concrete. At least 3,419 people were killed in 10 Turkish provinces, with over 20,000 injured, according to Turkish authorities, while on the Syrian side, the affected area is divided between government-controlled territory and the country’s last opposition-held enclave, which is surrounded by Russian-backed government forces. The death toll in government-held areas of Syria is reportedly over 812 people according to the Health Ministry, while at least 790 people have died in the country’s rebel-held northwest, with over 3, 600 persons injured. The UN General Assembly observed a minute of silence in tribute to the victims and its Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on the international community to help thousands of families affected by the disaster, many of whom were already in dire need of humanitarian aid. United States President Joe Biden called Erdogan to express condolences and offer assistance to the NATO ally. The White House said it was sending search-and-rescue teams to support Turkey’s efforts. National security spokesman John Kirby said the United States was sending two search-and-rescue teams of 79 people each, while the Pentagon and USAID were coordinating with their Turkish counterparts. Other countries like Germany, Greece, India, Poland, Russia, Ukraine and India have also expressed readiness to provide necessary assistance to overcome the consequences of the disaster.