THE Ogun State police command has explained how the three men who killed an Ogun State-based staff member of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Kehinde Fatinoye, slaughtered him on January 1 because he refused to oblige his driver’s requests for salary increase and loan to purchase a motorcycle. The driver, Lekan Adekanbi, alias Koroba, is one of the suspected killers, who also allegedly killed Fatinoye’s wife, Bukola, and the couple’s only son, Oreoluwa. The Command paraded Adekanbi, and the other two suspects – Ahmed Odetola (alias Akamo) and Waheed Adeniyi (alias Koffi) – on Friday, February 10 at the police headquarters at Eleweran, Abeokuta. The Command had been able to arrest Adekanbi on the day of the murder, but he escaped from custody the following day after feigning illness in the cell and the police took him to a hospital. He jumped over the hospital fence into thin air. In the wee hours of the New Year Day the suspects perpetrated their act. They had waited for their victims in the couple’s Ibara GRA residence in Abeokuta, since Adekanbi had easy access to it, to arrive from the 2022/2023 cross-over and then pounced on them. After killing them, they set the building on fire. A statement the Command’s spokesman, Superintendent Abimbola Oyeyemi, issued on Friday, February 10, narrated that following Adekanbi’s escape, the State anti-kidnapping unit joined forces with the homicide unit investigating the case to track him, and successfully traced him to his brother’s house in Iseyin, Oyo State. But he had fled before the police arrived there. Oyeyemi stated, “The teams further intensified their efforts, which yielded positive results when Lekan Adekanbi was apprehended in his hideout somewhere in Abeokuta on the 21st of January 2023.” Adeniyi and Odetola were apprehended at Ogere in Ogun State on February 9. During the interrogation, the suspect, who had been the couple’s driver since 2018, confessed to being the mastermind of the killings. “He stated that he invited the other two suspects, Ahmed Odetola and Waheed Adeniyi to join him to rob the couple. He confessed further that he took the step because the couple refused to increase his salary, and that he approached them for loan to buy a motorcycle, but they didn’t oblige him,” the PPRO said. He added that when the couple were at the suspects’ mercy, they forced Fatinoye to transfer money to Odetola’s Kuda Bank account, but the transfer failed. Adekanbi then provided his own Access Bank account into which they forced the banker to transfer N1.021 million at gunpoint. The statement added, “Since Lekan realized that his identity has been known through his bank account, he decided with others to terminate the life of the couple, consequent upon which Waheed Adeniyi took a knife from their kitchen and slaughtered the husband Kehinde Fatinoye, while Lekan Adekanbi used sledge hammer he purposely brought for the operation to hit the wife Bukola Fatinoye on the head and she died on the spot.” As the suspects were killing the couple, the victims’ only son, Oreoluwa, and an adopted one, Felix Olorunyomi, walked in. The suspects abducted them, tied in ropes, and drove them to a bridge in the Adigbe area of Abeokuta where they threw them into a river. While Olorunyomi was able to loosen the rope and swim out, Oreoluwa died there and his body was fished out the following day.