THE Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has announced the restriction of vehicular movement from 6:00 am to 6:00 pm on Saturday, February 25, for the presidential and National Assembly elections. Force Public Relations Officer Olumuyiwa Adejobi announced the development in a statement released on Wednesday, February 22. The measure is part of efforts by the police to maintain public order, safety and national security during the conduct of the weekend’s elections. “Consequent to the first part of the 2023 general elections, the presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled to hold on Saturday, February 25, 2023, across all states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, the IG, Usman Baba, has ordered a restriction of all forms of vehicular movement on roads, waterways, and other forms of transportation, from 12 am to 6 pm on election day with the exception of those on essential services such as INEC officials, electoral observers, ambulances responding to medical emergencies, firefighters, etc,” the statement said. The restriction, according to the the statement, would enable the security agencies to  effectively police the electoral process, and also prevent hoodlums and criminals from hijacking and disrupting the election. The IGP sternly warned all security aides and escorts to desist from accompanying their principals and politicians to polling booths and collation centres during the election, noting that anyone found flouting the directive would be severely sanctioned. “He emphasises that only security personnel specifically assigned to election duties are to be seen within and around the designated election booths and centres. “Also, the ban on the unauthorised use of sirens, revolving lights, covered number plates and tinted glasses is still in force, and violators would be sanctioned appropriately. “All state-established and owned security outfits/organisations, quasi-security units, and privately-owned guard and security outfits are also barred from participating in election security management,” the statement added. The Nigeria Police Force vowed that it would deal decisively with any individual or group(s) that might want to test its resolve to ensure a peaceful election. “The IG, therefore, enjoins all citizens to shun vote buying, vote selling, hate speech, misinformation, and disinformation, snatching of ballot boxes, and other criminal act(s) as the Force and other security agencies will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that all violators of extant laws, most especially the Electoral Act 2022 (as amended), are brought to book.” The statement further urged the public to contact the NPF and the Joint Election Monitoring and Operations Room domiciled at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, via the ‘NPF Rescue Me App’ available on Android and ios, or via the NPF Rescue Me Emergency Toll-free line on 08031230631, to report suspicious persons, activities or request security response. In the same vein, other joint operations/election situation room numbers will be released by all state police commands respectively, for emergency contact.