THE National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says over 200,000 corps members have been deployed as adhoc staff for the 2023 general elections. The Director-General of NYSC Brigadier General Yushau Dogara Ahmed disclosed this on Tuesday, February 21, at a press conference on the organisation’s preparations for the elections. Ahmed said the deployed corps members had been trained rigorously by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on election procedures. He said, “We have deployed over 200,000 corps members. Those who are participating in this election have already been trained. Some of them are trained outside the camps. Those who just passed out were trained by INEC officials in the camp. Proper training has been given to them, guidelines were given to them. They have been well informed and they are ready to give their best.” The NYSC boss warned the corps members against collecting gratification from politicians. He also asked the corps members to be careful of the environment they find themselves in during the elections. “What I want to warn corps members about is that they should be careful in whatever environment they find themselves in. They should not accept any gift from any politician. “They must not accept any food from anybody. As they go, they should carry at least their service support. Any form of gratification or gifts, we don’t expect any corps member to accept.” According to him, the NYSC has put in place measures to ensure the safety of corps members during and after the elections. He added, “What is fundamental for me to also mention is the security of these corps members. Since I took over, I have met with the IG of Police and the DSS. I have met with the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, I have equally met with INEC and every hand is on deck to ensure that the corps members are secured “We were assured by INEC that they will carry these corps members to their respective places of assignment and bring them back safely from wherever they are picking them from.” The ICIR had reported that the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission Mahmood Yakubu, assured corps members on election duty of premium security, noting that the NYSC plays a critical role in the election process. Yakubu stressed that the commission would continually operate within the framework of the existing Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the commission and the NYSC. It would be recalled that a former Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mike Igini had called for transparency in the selection of NYSC members and others who will serve as adhoc staff for the 2023 general elections. The former REC alleged that politicians usually connive with NYSC officials to influence the selection of adhoc staff for elections.