THE Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has directed its members to vote for the Labour Party (LP) in the general election. The directive was issued in a statement signed by National Secretary of the NLC National Political Commission, Chris Uyot, on Tuesday, February 21. The NLC mandated all its political committee members to intensify their work in mobilizing workers and other Nigerians to vote for the LP presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and all candidates of the party. “This is a clarion call to all workers and working people that as we approach the final push towards the forthcoming presidential election come February 25, 2023, we should ensure massive turnout of votes for the success of the Labour Party in line with an earlier resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC),” parts of the statement read. Members of the NLC political committee were also instructed to work with civil society organisations and students to safeguard votes and ensure that the electoral process is transparent, free and fair. The NLC also directed its affiliate unions and state councils to provide a minimum of 10 ward coordinators and canvassers to strengthen their efforts at the grassroots level. The labour union further urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to ensure that the electoral processes are transparent and fair and reflect the wishes of the Nigerian people. The NLC had earlier vowed to mobilise its members across the 774 local government areas in Nigeria to achieve victory for Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, in the presidential election. Former NLC National President, Ayuba Wabba, made the vow at a National Retreat of the LP in Abuja in September 2022. The ICIR reported that the NLC elected Joe Ajaero as its new National President on February 8. Ajaero, who was previously the Deputy National President and General Secretary of the Nigerian Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE), was elected unopposed at the 13th National Delegates’ Conference in Abuja.