THE Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has described as “misplaced” calls by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP) for the cancellation of the 2023 presidential election results and resignation of its chairman, Mahmood Yakubu. INEC, in a statement signed by its chairman’s Chief Press Secretary, Rotimi Oyekanmi, described the allegation by the collation agent of the PDP, Dino Melaye, as “unfounded and irresponsible.” The Commission mentioned that the results emanating from states indicated that a credible election had been conducted. “There are laid-down procedures for aggrieved parties or candidates to follow when they are dissatisfied about the outcome of an election. Such procedures do not include calling on the INEC chairman to resign, or for the election to be cancelled. “To be sure, aggrieved parties are free to approach the courts to ventilate their concerns and wait for the matter to be resolved. Making inciting comments capable of causing violence or unrest is unacceptable,” the statement read. Oyekanmi noted that the 2023 general election processes were in their final stages of completion and it would be fair for aggrieved parties to allow the conclusion of the process and approach the courts with their evidence to pursue their cases. Earlier today, the PDP, LP and the African Democratic Congress (ADC) had called on INEC to cancel the election. The chairman of the LP, Julius Abure, had alleged that the INEC compromised the integrity of the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections. Abure said, “INEC conducted the election with the use of a method that predates the use of BVAS in this election. It is not free and fair.” According to him, the election by Yakubu had been “irretrievably compromised”, and, therefore, the ADC, PDP and Labour Party would no longer be part of the collation in Abuja. He stressed that the national collated results had been alternated. “The national collation has heavily been doctored, a vote of no confidence is called and we, therefore, call for the Chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, to step aside in this process. “In Bayelsa, Nasarawa, Rivers, the election results are still being taken to government houses for manipulations. “The damage that has been done to the election conducted on Saturday is not something that can be corrected. The election is known to be manipulated after leaving the polling units despite the fact that they adopted BVAS. “INEC should repeat this activity. They have failed and their mistake is incorrectible,” he said. The chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu, called on the intervention of President Mohammadu Buhari to ensure a credible election. Ayu said, “Buhari should intervene to save Nigerians from this electoral malpractice.” The chairman of the ADC, Ralph Okey, also condemned the alleged malpractices, which he said happened during and after the elections. “Some of the wrongs can be corrected but the level of rigging is widespread and the process requires that the result should be cancelled. “The best thing to do is to follow what we say for the country to move forward,” he added.